website/src/routes/(docs)/vue/guides/(advanced-guides)/special-inputs/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Special inputs
description: >-
  Learn how to use special HTML form inputs like checkboxes, select elements,
  and file inputs with Formisch. This guide covers both single and multiple
  value scenarios for each input type.
contributors:
  - fabian-hiller
---

import { Link } from '~/components';

# Special inputs

As listed in our features, the library supports all native HTML form fields. This includes the HTML `<select />` element as well as special cases of the `<input />` element.

> In our <Link href="/playground/special">playground</Link> you can take a look at such fields and test them out.

## Checkbox

A simple checkbox represents a boolean and is `true` when checked or `false` otherwise.

```vue
<template>
  <Field :of="form" :path="['cookies']" v-slot="field">
    <label>
      <input v-bind="field.props" type="checkbox" :checked="field.input" />
      Yes, I want cookies
    </label>
  </Field>
</template>
```

However, you can also use multiple checkboxes to represent an array of strings. For this you simply have to add the `value` attribute to the HTML `<input />` element.

```vue
<template>
  <Field :of="form" :path="['fruits']" v-slot="field">
    <label
      v-for="fruit in [
        { label: 'Bananas', value: 'bananas' },
        { label: 'Apples', value: 'apples' },
        { label: 'Grapes', value: 'grapes' },
      ]"
      :key="fruit.value"
    >
      <input
        v-bind="field.props"
        type="checkbox"
        :value="fruit.value"
        :checked="field.input?.includes(fruit.value)"
      />
      {{ fruit.label }}
    </label>
  </Field>
</template>
```

## Select

An HTML `<select />` element allows you to select a string from a predefined list of options.

```vue
<template>
  <Field :of="form" :path="['framework']" v-slot="field">
    <select v-bind="field.props">
      <option
        v-for="option in [
          { label: 'Preact', value: 'preact' },
          { label: 'Solid', value: 'solid' },
          { label: 'Qwik', value: 'qwik' },
        ]"
        :key="option.value"
        :value="option.value"
        :selected="field.input === option.value"
      >
        {{ option.label }}
      </option>
    </select>
  </Field>
</template>
```

However, if you set the `multiple` attribute, multiple options can be selected making the field represent an array of strings.

```vue
<template>
  <Field :of="form" :path="['frameworks']" v-slot="field">
    <select v-bind="field.props" multiple>
      <option
        v-for="option in [
          { label: 'Preact', value: 'preact' },
          { label: 'Solid', value: 'solid' },
          { label: 'Qwik', value: 'qwik' },
        ]"
        :key="option.value"
        :value="option.value"
        :selected="field.input?.includes(option.value)"
      >
        {{ option.label }}
      </option>
    </select>
  </Field>
</template>
```

## File

For the HTML `<input type="file" />` element it works similar to the HTML `<select />` element. Without the `multiple` attribute it represents a single file and with, a list of files.

```vue
<template>
  <Field :of="form" :path="['avatar']" v-slot="field">
    <input v-bind="field.props" type="file" accept="image/*" />
  </Field>
</template>
```

With the `multiple` attribute, users can select multiple files:

```vue
<template>
  <Field :of="form" :path="['documents']" v-slot="field">
    <input v-bind="field.props" type="file" multiple />
  </Field>
</template>
```

Commit message:

Adding radio button documentation to the special inputs guides for each framework

website/src/routes/(docs)/vue/guides/(advanced-guides)/special-inputs/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Special inputs
description: >-
  Learn how to use special HTML form inputs like checkboxes, radio buttons, select elements,
  and file inputs with Formisch. This guide covers both single and multiple
  value scenarios for each input type.
contributors:
  - fabian-hiller
  - jaydiablo
---

import { Link } from '~/components';

# Special inputs

As listed in our features, the library supports all native HTML form fields. This includes the HTML `<select />` element as well as special cases of the `<input />` element.

> In our <Link href="/playground/special">playground</Link> you can take a look at such fields and test them out.

## Checkbox

A simple checkbox represents a boolean and is `true` when checked or `false` otherwise.

```vue
<template>
  <Field :of="form" :path="['cookies']" v-slot="field">
    <label>
      <input v-bind="field.props" type="checkbox" :checked="field.input" />
      Yes, I want cookies
    </label>
  </Field>
</template>
```

However, you can also use multiple checkboxes to represent an array of strings. For this you simply have to add the `value` attribute to the HTML `<input />` element.

```vue
<template>
  <Field :of="form" :path="['fruits']" v-slot="field">
    <label
      v-for="fruit in [
        { label: 'Bananas', value: 'bananas' },
        { label: 'Apples', value: 'apples' },
        { label: 'Grapes', value: 'grapes' },
      ]"
      :key="fruit.value"
    >
      <input
        v-bind="field.props"
        type="checkbox"
        :value="fruit.value"
        :checked="field.input?.includes(fruit.value)"
      />
      {{ fruit.label }}
    </label>
  </Field>
</template>
```

## Radio 

A group of radio buttons, while similar to an array of checkboxes, will only allow you to select one of the options based on which button is checked.

```vue
<template>
  <Field :of="form" :path="['fruits']" v-slot="field">
    <label
      v-for="fruit in [
        { label: 'Bananas', value: 'bananas' },
        { label: 'Apples', value: 'apples' },
        { label: 'Grapes', value: 'grapes' },
      ]"
      :key="fruit.value"
    >
      <input
        v-bind="field.props"
        type="radio"
        :value="fruit.value"
        :checked="field.input === fruit.value"
      />
      {{ fruit.label }}
    </label>
  </Field>
</template>
```

## Select

An HTML `<select />` element allows you to select a string from a predefined list of options.

```vue
<template>
  <Field :of="form" :path="['framework']" v-slot="field">
    <select v-bind="field.props">
      <option
        v-for="option in [
          { label: 'Preact', value: 'preact' },
          { label: 'Solid', value: 'solid' },
          { label: 'Qwik', value: 'qwik' },
        ]"
        :key="option.value"
        :value="option.value"
        :selected="field.input === option.value"
      >
        {{ option.label }}
      </option>
    </select>
  </Field>
</template>
```

However, if you set the `multiple` attribute, multiple options can be selected making the field represent an array of strings.

```vue
<template>
  <Field :of="form" :path="['frameworks']" v-slot="field">
    <select v-bind="field.props" multiple>
      <option
        v-for="option in [
          { label: 'Preact', value: 'preact' },
          { label: 'Solid', value: 'solid' },
          { label: 'Qwik', value: 'qwik' },
        ]"
        :key="option.value"
        :value="option.value"
        :selected="field.input?.includes(option.value)"
      >
        {{ option.label }}
      </option>
    </select>
  </Field>
</template>
```

## File

For the HTML `<input type="file" />` element it works similar to the HTML `<select />` element. Without the `multiple` attribute it represents a single file and with, a list of files.

```vue
<template>
  <Field :of="form" :path="['avatar']" v-slot="field">
    <input v-bind="field.props" type="file" accept="image/*" />
  </Field>
</template>
```

With the `multiple` attribute, users can select multiple files:

```vue
<template>
  <Field :of="form" :path="['documents']" v-slot="field">
    <input v-bind="field.props" type="file" multiple />
  </Field>
</template>
```
