website/src/routes/(docs)/methods/api/(methods)/setInput/index.mdx, before:

---
title: setInput
description: Sets input values for the form or a specific field.
source: /packages/methods/src/setInput/setInput.ts
contributors:
  - fabian-hiller
---

import { ApiList, Link, Property } from '~/components';
import { properties } from './properties';

# setInput

Sets input values for the form or a specific field programmatically.

```ts
setInput<TSchema>(form, config);
setInput<TSchema, TFieldPath>(form, config);
```

## Generics

- `TSchema` <Property {...properties.TSchema} />
- `TFieldPath` <Property {...properties.TFieldPath} />

## Parameters

- `form` <Property {...properties.form} />
- `config` <Property {...properties.config} />

### Explanation

The `form` parameter is the form store to set input on. The `config` parameter specifies the path to the field and the new input values to set.

## Related

### Primitives

<ApiList items={[{ text: 'createForm', href: '/solid/api/createForm/' }]} />

### Methods

<ApiList
  items={[
    { text: 'getInput', href: '../getInput/' },
    { text: 'reset', href: '../reset/' },
  ]}
/>

Commit message:

Update docs to clarify usage of reset method with new initialInput

website/src/routes/(docs)/methods/api/(methods)/setInput/index.mdx, after:

---
title: setInput
description: Sets input values for the form or a specific field.
source: /packages/methods/src/setInput/setInput.ts
contributors:
  - fabian-hiller
---

import { ApiList, Link, Property } from '~/components';
import { properties } from './properties';

# setInput

Sets input values for the form or a specific field programmatically.

```ts
setInput<TSchema>(form, config);
setInput<TSchema, TFieldPath>(form, config);
```

## Generics

- `TSchema` <Property {...properties.TSchema} />
- `TFieldPath` <Property {...properties.TFieldPath} />

## Parameters

- `form` <Property {...properties.form} />
- `config` <Property {...properties.config} />

### Explanation

The `form` parameter is the form store to set input on. The `config` parameter specifies the path to the field and the new input values to set.

> If you need to update the form because the initial data has changed (e.g., remote data was refreshed), use <Link href="../reset/">`reset`</Link> instead of `setInput`. The `reset` method properly reinitializes the form state, while `setInput` only changes the current input values without updating the initial state.

## Related

### Primitives

<ApiList items={[{ text: 'createForm', href: '/solid/api/createForm/' }]} />

### Methods

<ApiList
  items={[
    { text: 'getInput', href: '../getInput/' },
    { text: 'reset', href: '../reset/' },
  ]}
/>
