website/src/routes/(docs)/svelte/guides/(main-concepts)/create-your-form/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Create your form
description: >-
  Learn how to create a form with the createForm rune. It initializes
  your form's store based on your Valibot schema for managing form state
  and validation.
contributors:
  - fabian-hiller
---

import { Link } from '~/components';

# Create your form

Formisch consists of runes, components and methods. To create a form you use the <Link href="/svelte/api/createForm/">`createForm`</Link> rune.

## Form rune

The <Link href="/svelte/api/createForm/">`createForm`</Link> rune initializes and returns the store of your form. The store contains the state of the form and can be used with other Formisch runes, components and methods to build your form.

```svelte
<script lang="ts">
  import { createForm, Field, Form } from '@formisch/svelte';
  import * as v from 'valibot';

  const LoginSchema = v.object({
    email: v.pipe(v.string(), v.email()),
    password: v.pipe(v.string(), v.minLength(8)),
  });

  const loginForm = createForm({
    schema: LoginSchema,
  });
</script>

<Form of={loginForm}>
  <!-- Form fields will go here -->
</Form>
```

### Configuration options

The <Link href="/svelte/api/createForm/">`createForm`</Link> rune accepts a configuration object with the following options:

- `schema`: Your Valibot schema that defines the form
- `initialInput`: Initial values for your form fields (optional)
- `validate`: When validation first occurs (optional, defaults to `'submit'`)
- `revalidate`: When revalidation occurs after initial validation (optional, defaults to `'input'`)

```ts
const loginForm = createForm({
  schema: LoginSchema,
  initialInput: {
    email: 'user@example.com',
  },
  validate: 'initial',
  revalidate: 'input',
});
```

### Multiple forms

When a page contains multiple forms, you can create separate form stores for each one:

```svelte
<script lang="ts">
  import { createForm, Form } from '@formisch/svelte';
  import * as v from 'valibot';

  const LoginSchema = v.object({
    email: v.pipe(v.string(), v.email()),
    password: v.pipe(v.string(), v.minLength(8)),
  });

  const RegisterSchema = v.object({
    username: v.pipe(v.string(), v.minLength(3)),
    email: v.pipe(v.string(), v.email()),
    password: v.pipe(v.string(), v.minLength(8)),
  });

  const loginForm = createForm({ schema: LoginSchema });
  const registerForm = createForm({ schema: RegisterSchema });
</script>

<Form of={loginForm}><!-- … --></Form>
<Form of={registerForm}><!-- … --></Form>
```

## Next steps

Now that you know how to create a form, continue to the <Link href="/svelte/guides/add-form-fields/">add form fields</Link> guide to learn how to connect your input elements to the form using the <Link href="/svelte/api/Field/">`Field`</Link> component.

Commit message:

Update docs to clarify usage of reset method with new initialInput

website/src/routes/(docs)/svelte/guides/(main-concepts)/create-your-form/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Create your form
description: >-
  Learn how to create a form with the createForm rune. It initializes
  your form's store based on your Valibot schema for managing form state
  and validation.
contributors:
  - fabian-hiller
---

import { Link } from '~/components';

# Create your form

Formisch consists of runes, components and methods. To create a form you use the <Link href="/svelte/api/createForm/">`createForm`</Link> rune.

## Form rune

The <Link href="/svelte/api/createForm/">`createForm`</Link> rune initializes and returns the store of your form. The store contains the state of the form and can be used with other Formisch runes, components and methods to build your form.

```svelte
<script lang="ts">
  import { createForm, Field, Form } from '@formisch/svelte';
  import * as v from 'valibot';

  const LoginSchema = v.object({
    email: v.pipe(v.string(), v.email()),
    password: v.pipe(v.string(), v.minLength(8)),
  });

  const loginForm = createForm({
    schema: LoginSchema,
  });
</script>

<Form of={loginForm}>
  <!-- Form fields will go here -->
</Form>
```

### Configuration options

The <Link href="/svelte/api/createForm/">`createForm`</Link> rune accepts a configuration object with the following options:

- `schema`: Your Valibot schema that defines the form
- `initialInput`: Initial values for your form fields (optional)
- `validate`: When validation first occurs (optional, defaults to `'submit'`)
- `revalidate`: When revalidation occurs after initial validation (optional, defaults to `'input'`)

```ts
const loginForm = createForm({
  schema: LoginSchema,
  initialInput: {
    email: 'user@example.com',
  },
  validate: 'initial',
  revalidate: 'input',
});
```

> If your initial data comes from a remote source and may change after form creation, use the <Link href="/methods/api/reset/">`reset`</Link> method with a new `initialInput` to update the form's baseline data.

### Multiple forms

When a page contains multiple forms, you can create separate form stores for each one:

```svelte
<script lang="ts">
  import { createForm, Form } from '@formisch/svelte';
  import * as v from 'valibot';

  const LoginSchema = v.object({
    email: v.pipe(v.string(), v.email()),
    password: v.pipe(v.string(), v.minLength(8)),
  });

  const RegisterSchema = v.object({
    username: v.pipe(v.string(), v.minLength(3)),
    email: v.pipe(v.string(), v.email()),
    password: v.pipe(v.string(), v.minLength(8)),
  });

  const loginForm = createForm({ schema: LoginSchema });
  const registerForm = createForm({ schema: RegisterSchema });
</script>

<Form of={loginForm}><!-- … --></Form>
<Form of={registerForm}><!-- … --></Form>
```

## Next steps

Now that you know how to create a form, continue to the <Link href="/svelte/guides/add-form-fields/">add form fields</Link> guide to learn how to connect your input elements to the form using the <Link href="/svelte/api/Field/">`Field`</Link> component.
