website/src/routes/(docs)/preact/guides/(main-concepts)/create-your-form/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Create your form
description: >-
  Learn how to create a form with the useForm hook. It initializes
  your form's store based on your Valibot schema for managing form state
  and validation.
contributors:
  - fabian-hiller
---

import { Link } from '~/components';

# Create your form

Formisch consists of hooks, components and methods. To create a form you use the <Link href="/preact/api/useForm/">`useForm`</Link> hook.

## Form hook

The <Link href="/preact/api/useForm/">`useForm`</Link> hook initializes and returns the store of your form. The store contains the state of the form and can be used with other Formisch hooks, components and methods to build your form.

```tsx
import { Field, Form, useForm } from '@formisch/preact';
import * as v from 'valibot';

const LoginSchema = v.object({
  email: v.pipe(v.string(), v.email()),
  password: v.pipe(v.string(), v.minLength(8)),
});

export default function App() {
  const loginForm = useForm({
    schema: LoginSchema,
  });

  return <Form of={loginForm}>{/* Form fields will go here */}</Form>;
}
```

### Configuration options

The <Link href="/preact/api/useForm/">`useForm`</Link> hook accepts a configuration object with the following options:

- `schema`: Your Valibot schema that defines the form
- `initialInput`: Initial values for your form fields (optional)
- `validate`: When validation first occurs (optional, defaults to `'submit'`)
- `revalidate`: When revalidation occurs after initial validation (optional, defaults to `'input'`)

```tsx
const loginForm = useForm({
  schema: LoginSchema,
  initialInput: {
    email: 'user@example.com',
  },
  validate: 'initial',
  revalidate: 'input',
});
```

### Multiple forms

When a page contains multiple forms, you can create separate form stores for each one:

```tsx
import { Form, useForm } from '@formisch/preact';
import * as v from 'valibot';

const LoginSchema = v.object({
  email: v.pipe(v.string(), v.email()),
  password: v.pipe(v.string(), v.minLength(8)),
});

const RegisterSchema = v.object({
  username: v.pipe(v.string(), v.minLength(3)),
  email: v.pipe(v.string(), v.email()),
  password: v.pipe(v.string(), v.minLength(8)),
});

export default function App() {
  const loginForm = useForm({ schema: LoginSchema });
  const registerForm = useForm({ schema: RegisterSchema });

  return (
    <>
      <Form of={loginForm}>{/* … */}</Form>
      <Form of={registerForm}>{/* … */}</Form>
    </>
  );
}
```

## Next steps

Now that you know how to create a form, continue to the <Link href="/preact/guides/add-form-fields/">add form fields</Link> guide to learn how to connect your input elements to the form using the <Link href="/preact/api/Field/">`Field`</Link> component.

Commit message:

Update docs to clarify usage of reset method with new initialInput

website/src/routes/(docs)/preact/guides/(main-concepts)/create-your-form/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Create your form
description: >-
  Learn how to create a form with the useForm hook. It initializes
  your form's store based on your Valibot schema for managing form state
  and validation.
contributors:
  - fabian-hiller
---

import { Link } from '~/components';

# Create your form

Formisch consists of hooks, components and methods. To create a form you use the <Link href="/preact/api/useForm/">`useForm`</Link> hook.

## Form hook

The <Link href="/preact/api/useForm/">`useForm`</Link> hook initializes and returns the store of your form. The store contains the state of the form and can be used with other Formisch hooks, components and methods to build your form.

```tsx
import { Field, Form, useForm } from '@formisch/preact';
import * as v from 'valibot';

const LoginSchema = v.object({
  email: v.pipe(v.string(), v.email()),
  password: v.pipe(v.string(), v.minLength(8)),
});

export default function App() {
  const loginForm = useForm({
    schema: LoginSchema,
  });

  return <Form of={loginForm}>{/* Form fields will go here */}</Form>;
}
```

### Configuration options

The <Link href="/preact/api/useForm/">`useForm`</Link> hook accepts a configuration object with the following options:

- `schema`: Your Valibot schema that defines the form
- `initialInput`: Initial values for your form fields (optional)
- `validate`: When validation first occurs (optional, defaults to `'submit'`)
- `revalidate`: When revalidation occurs after initial validation (optional, defaults to `'input'`)

```tsx
const loginForm = useForm({
  schema: LoginSchema,
  initialInput: {
    email: 'user@example.com',
  },
  validate: 'initial',
  revalidate: 'input',
});
```

> If your initial data comes from a remote source and may change after form creation, use the <Link href="/methods/api/reset/">`reset`</Link> method with a new `initialInput` to update the form's baseline data.

### Multiple forms

When a page contains multiple forms, you can create separate form stores for each one:

```tsx
import { Form, useForm } from '@formisch/preact';
import * as v from 'valibot';

const LoginSchema = v.object({
  email: v.pipe(v.string(), v.email()),
  password: v.pipe(v.string(), v.minLength(8)),
});

const RegisterSchema = v.object({
  username: v.pipe(v.string(), v.minLength(3)),
  email: v.pipe(v.string(), v.email()),
  password: v.pipe(v.string(), v.minLength(8)),
});

export default function App() {
  const loginForm = useForm({ schema: LoginSchema });
  const registerForm = useForm({ schema: RegisterSchema });

  return (
    <>
      <Form of={loginForm}>{/* … */}</Form>
      <Form of={registerForm}>{/* … */}</Form>
    </>
  );
}
```

## Next steps

Now that you know how to create a form, continue to the <Link href="/preact/guides/add-form-fields/">add form fields</Link> guide to learn how to connect your input elements to the form using the <Link href="/preact/api/Field/">`Field`</Link> component.
