website/src/routes/(docs)/svelte/guides/(main-concepts)/form-methods/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Form methods
description: >-
  Learn about the methods available to read and manipulate your form state.
  Formisch provides methods for getting values, setting values, validation,
  and more.
contributors:
  - fabian-hiller
---

import { Link } from '~/components';

# Form methods

To retrieve the values of your form or to make changes to the form, Formisch provides you with several methods. These apply either to the entire form or to individual fields.

## Reading values

To retrieve values from your form, you can use:

- <Link href="/methods/api/getInput/">`getInput`</Link>: Get the current value
  of a specific field
- <Link href="/methods/api/getErrors/">`getErrors`</Link>: Get error messages
  for a specific field
- <Link href="/methods/api/getAllErrors/">`getAllErrors`</Link>: Get all error
  messages across the entire form

Formisch uses reactive stores internally which means that reading values with these methods is reactive. When the form state changes, any component or subscription that uses these methods will automatically update to reflect the new state.

## Setting values

To manually update form values or errors, use:

- <Link href="/methods/api/setInput/">`setInput`</Link>: Manually update the
  value of a specific field
- <Link href="/methods/api/setErrors/">`setErrors`</Link>: Manually set error
  messages for a specific field

## Form control

To control the form programmatically, use:

- <Link href="/methods/api/handleSubmit/">`handleSubmit`</Link>: Create a submit
  event handler that validates the form and calls your handler on success
- <Link href="/methods/api/reset/">`reset`</Link>: Reset the form to its initial
  state or update initial values
- <Link href="/methods/api/validate/">`validate`</Link>: Manually trigger
  validation for the entire form or specific fields
- <Link href="/methods/api/submit/">`submit`</Link>: Programmatically trigger
  form submission
- <Link href="/methods/api/focus/">`focus`</Link>: Focus on a specific field

## Array operations

For working with field arrays, Formisch provides:

- <Link href="/methods/api/insert/">`insert`</Link>: Insert a new item into a
  field array
- <Link href="/methods/api/remove/">`remove`</Link>: Remove an item from a field
  array
- <Link href="/methods/api/move/">`move`</Link>: Move an item to a different
  position in a field array
- <Link href="/methods/api/swap/">`swap`</Link>: Swap two items in a field array
- <Link href="/methods/api/replace/">`replace`</Link>: Replace an item in a
  field array

## API design

All methods in Formisch follow a consistent API pattern: the first parameter is always the form store, and the second parameter (if necessary) is always a config object. This design makes the API flexible and consistent across all methods. Once you understand this pattern, you basically understand the entire API design.

Here are some examples:

```ts
// Get the value of a field
const emailInput = getInput(loginForm, { path: ['email'] });

// Reset the form with new initial values
reset(loginForm, { initialInput: { email: '', password: '' } });

// Move an item in a field array
move(loginForm, { path: ['items'], from: 0, to: 3 });
```

## API reference

You can find detailed documentation for each method in our <Link href="/svelte/api/">API reference</Link>.

Commit message:

Update docs to clarify usage of reset method with new initialInput

website/src/routes/(docs)/svelte/guides/(main-concepts)/form-methods/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Form methods
description: >-
  Learn about the methods available to read and manipulate your form state.
  Formisch provides methods for getting values, setting values, validation,
  and more.
contributors:
  - fabian-hiller
---

import { Link } from '~/components';

# Form methods

To retrieve the values of your form or to make changes to the form, Formisch provides you with several methods. These apply either to the entire form or to individual fields.

## Reading values

To retrieve values from your form, you can use:

- <Link href="/methods/api/getInput/">`getInput`</Link>: Get the current value
  of a specific field
- <Link href="/methods/api/getErrors/">`getErrors`</Link>: Get error messages
  for a specific field
- <Link href="/methods/api/getAllErrors/">`getAllErrors`</Link>: Get all error
  messages across the entire form

Formisch uses reactive stores internally which means that reading values with these methods is reactive. When the form state changes, any component or subscription that uses these methods will automatically update to reflect the new state.

## Setting values

To manually update form values or errors, use:

- <Link href="/methods/api/setInput/">`setInput`</Link>: Manually update the
  value of a specific field
- <Link href="/methods/api/setErrors/">`setErrors`</Link>: Manually set error
  messages for a specific field

> If you need to update the form because the initial data has changed (e.g., remote data was refreshed), use <Link href="/methods/api/reset/">`reset`</Link> with a new `initialInput` instead of `setInput`. The `reset` method properly reinitializes the form state, while `setInput` only changes the current input values without updating the initial state.

## Form control

To control the form programmatically, use:

- <Link href="/methods/api/handleSubmit/">`handleSubmit`</Link>: Create a submit
  event handler that validates the form and calls your handler on success
- <Link href="/methods/api/reset/">`reset`</Link>: Reset the form to its initial
  state or update initial values
- <Link href="/methods/api/validate/">`validate`</Link>: Manually trigger
  validation for the entire form or specific fields
- <Link href="/methods/api/submit/">`submit`</Link>: Programmatically trigger
  form submission
- <Link href="/methods/api/focus/">`focus`</Link>: Focus on a specific field

## Array operations

For working with field arrays, Formisch provides:

- <Link href="/methods/api/insert/">`insert`</Link>: Insert a new item into a
  field array
- <Link href="/methods/api/remove/">`remove`</Link>: Remove an item from a field
  array
- <Link href="/methods/api/move/">`move`</Link>: Move an item to a different
  position in a field array
- <Link href="/methods/api/swap/">`swap`</Link>: Swap two items in a field array
- <Link href="/methods/api/replace/">`replace`</Link>: Replace an item in a
  field array

## API design

All methods in Formisch follow a consistent API pattern: the first parameter is always the form store, and the second parameter (if necessary) is always a config object. This design makes the API flexible and consistent across all methods. Once you understand this pattern, you basically understand the entire API design.

Here are some examples:

```ts
// Get the value of a field
const emailInput = getInput(loginForm, { path: ['email'] });

// Reset the form with new initial values
reset(loginForm, { initialInput: { email: '', password: '' } });

// Move an item in a field array
move(loginForm, { path: ['items'], from: 0, to: 3 });
```

## API reference

You can find detailed documentation for each method in our <Link href="/svelte/api/">API reference</Link>.
