website/src/routes/(docs)/vue/guides/(get-started)/llms-txt/index.mdx, before:

---
title: LLMs.txt
description: >-
  If you are using AI to generate Valibot schemas, you can use our LLMs.txt
  files to help the AI better understand the library.
contributors:
  - fabian-hiller
---

# LLMs.txt

If you are using AI to generate forms with Formisch, you can use our LLMs.txt files to help the AI better understand the library.

## What is LLMs.txt?

An [LLMs.txt](https://llmstxt.org/) file is a plain text file that provides instructions or metadata for large language models (LLMs). It often specifies how the LLMs should process or interact with content. It is similar to a robots.txt file, but is tailored for AI models.

## Available routes

We provide several LLMs.txt routes. Use the route that works best with your AI tool.

- [`llms.txt`](/llms.txt) contains a table of contents with links to all Markdown files
- [`llms-vue.txt`](/llms-vue.txt) contains a table of contents with links to Vue related files
- [`llms-vue-full.txt`](/llms-vue-full.txt) contains the Markdown content of the entire Vue docs
- [`llms-vue-guides.txt`](/llms-vue-guides.txt) contains the Markdown content of the Vue guides
- [`llms-vue-api.txt`](/llms-vue-api.txt) contains the Markdown content of the Vue API reference

## How to use it

To help you get started, here are some examples of how the LLMs.txt files can be used with various AI tools.

> Please help us by adding more examples of other AI tools. If you use a tool that supports LLMs.txt files, please [open a pull request](https://github.com/fabian-hiller/valibot/pulls) to add it to this page.

### Cursor

You can add a custom documentation as context in Cursor using the `@Docs` feature. Read more about it [here](https://docs.cursor.com/context/@-symbols/@-docs).

Commit message:

add agent-skill to llms.txt

website/src/routes/(docs)/vue/guides/(get-started)/llms-txt/index.mdx, after:

---
title: LLMs.txt
description: >-
  If you are using AI to generate Valibot schemas, you can use our LLMs.txt
  files to help the AI better understand the library.
contributors:
  - fabian-hiller
---

# LLMs.txt

If you are using AI to generate forms with Formisch, you can use our LLMs.txt files to help the AI better understand the library.

## What is LLMs.txt?

An [LLMs.txt](https://llmstxt.org/) file is a plain text file that provides instructions or metadata for large language models (LLMs). It often specifies how the LLMs should process or interact with content. It is similar to a robots.txt file, but is tailored for AI models.

## Available routes

We provide several LLMs.txt routes. Use the route that works best with your AI tool.

- [`llms.txt`](/llms.txt) contains a table of contents with links to all Markdown files
- [`llms-vue.txt`](/llms-vue.txt) contains a table of contents with links to Vue related files
- [`llms-vue-full.txt`](/llms-vue-full.txt) contains the Markdown content of the entire Vue docs
- [`llms-vue-guides.txt`](/llms-vue-guides.txt) contains the Markdown content of the Vue guides
- [`llms-vue-api.txt`](/llms-vue-api.txt) contains the Markdown content of the Vue API reference
- [`agent-skill`](https://github.com/open-circle/agent-skills/blob/main/skills/formisch/SKILL.md) contains specialized instructions for AI agents to build forms and manage state.

## How to use it

To help you get started, here are some examples of how the LLMs.txt files can be used with various AI tools.

> Please help us by adding more examples of other AI tools. If you use a tool that supports LLMs.txt files, please [open a pull request](https://github.com/fabian-hiller/valibot/pulls) to add it to this page.

### Cursor

You can add a custom documentation as context in Cursor using the `@Docs` feature. Read more about it [here](https://docs.cursor.com/context/@-symbols/@-docs).
